---
layout: post
title: Worry 2 Persistent Sick Leave
author: Sarah Birkby
tags:   [HR]
---

The Problem:
-----------

I have an employee who is persistently off sick for short bursts of time with a variety of ailments.  When I speak to them I feel it's genuine, but then one of their colleagues tells me they have seen them in the pub.  What's the best way to address this issue, as when this employee is here, they are my best performer?

The Solution:
------------

According to figures from PwC (PwC Blog, July 2013) the cost of sickness absence in UK Companies is almost £29 billion.  As a small business, sickness absence can make the difference between profit and loss. Therefore it's important to have a clear policy on absence - and in this case - how you will treat short-term absences.

Consider the following when drafting your policy:

* Do you have a company sick scheme in addition to Statutory Sick Pay (SSP) and if so how long do you pay it for?
* What is the procedure for absence reporting?
* What is your procedure for returning to work? Do you require all employees to have an interview upon their return?
* Is there a formal process to follow when you feel an individual is taking too much sick? Do you need to put set trigger points in place?
* What processes do you have in place to help and support individuals, for example: flexible working patterns?

Where do you go from here?
--------------------------

In this scenario, firstly have a conversation with the person concerned highlighting the level of absence they have had over recent months.  Tell them how this relates to your procedure. Ask the employee if there is any specific reason for the absence and if there is support you can offer, such as flexible working patterns.

Agree a set of next steps - for example - next time they are off sick they will be required to attend a return to work meeting immediately thereafter.

If you have an established policy, has the individual been following the necessary procedures?

If not, this should be addressed with the employee and you may need to take appropriate action in accordance with your policies and procedures.

Feel like you need to know more?
-------------------------------
For help with drafting appropriate absence policies or to arrange a consultation with our HR team, email: <info@management-team.co.uk>

Disclaimer:

All the advice given here is based on a hypothetical scenario generated by The Management Team for marketing purposes and should not in any way be considered a substitute for an individual consultation. We take every care to ensure the advice on our website is correct, however we cannot be held liable for any acts or omissions. Please note this advice should not be seen or construed as, or be substituted for, legal advice.
