---
layout: post
title: Worry 1 Avoiding claims of discrimination at recruitment stage
author: Sarah Birkby
tags:   [HR]
---

The Problem:
-----------
Recently I have been advertising for a role and have received multiple applications that appear to be from the same person - however they have used a series of different names. I want to make sure that I am fair in my assessment of all candidates and don't fall foul of any employment legislation. What should I do?


The Solution:
-------------
It is really important that in all your recruitment processes you establish a fair selection procedure.This will relate to how you advertise role; how you screen CVs; the process and questions you use at interview and selection meetings and how you arrive at the recruitment decision.

This will assist in avoiding claims of discrimination at interview stage.

Under the provision of the Equality Act 2010, an individual can bring the following protective characteristics discrimination claims against a potential employer:

* Age
* Disability
* Gender reassignment
* Sex
* Sexual orientation
* Pregnancy and maternity
* Marriage and civil partnership
* Race
* Religion or belief

To assist in avoiding the potential of a claim, make sure you assess each CV against a written set of criteria that you are looking for the individuals to demonstrate on their CV.  This could include:

1. Is the candidate eligible to work in the UK.
2. Does the candidate have the minimum qualifications specified as necessary for the role.
3. Does the candidate have multi-site experience.
4. Does the candidate have experience in specific sectors.

Note: Be mindful that you need to make sure that your initial screening criteria are not in themselves discriminatory.

Where do you go from here?
--------------------------

For each of these areas, set a specific score based on your interpretation of the CV, and apply this consistently to all the CVs you review.

Make sure you keep a record of the scores. This means you are able compare all the CVs and select only those with the best scores.  You will also have all the information to hand should a candidate ask why they were unsuccessful.

Feel like you need to know more?
--------------------------------

For more information on this subject or to arrange a consultation with our HR team, email: <info@management-team.co.uk>


Disclaimer:

All the advice given here is based on a hypothetical scenario generated by The Management Team for marketing purposes and should not in any way be considered a substitute for an individual consultation. We take every care to ensure the advice on our website is correct, however we cannot be held liable for any acts or omissions. Please note this advice should not be seen or construed as, or be substituted for, legal advice.
