---
layout: post
title: "Worry #3: Talent Management"
author: Sarah Birkby
categories:   [HR]
tags: [Personal Development Plans, Talent Management]
---

The Problem:
------------
I am a small to medium sized employer with 50 employees. Most of my employees are professional individuals with highly sought after skills.  I am concerned that if I don’t invest in my most talented individuals I may lose them to the competition.  What do I do as I don’t want to spend the earth developing a high-tech solution?

The Solution:
------------

In this scenario a good place to start is to be clear about how you define talent in your business, as there are many differing views.

In a recent CIPD (Chartered institute of Personnel and Development) fact sheet August 2013, talent was defined as:

"Those individuals who can make a difference to an organisations performance either through their immediate contribution or the longer term, by demonstrating the highest levels of potential."

Once you have defined what ‘talent’ is, the next step is to consider how you identify it.  You may feel that 'gut feel' is the best way, however it is advisable to show consistency in selection if challenged by others.

Consider the following simple steps:

* Review the employees most recent performance review, how are they performing against such things as:
1. Objectives
2. Job responsibilities
3. Core competencies and behaviours
* Benchmark the employee against the  role  profile and job description are there areas where they excel above their peers
* Develop a bespoke development centre for employees that aims to measure them against the key accountabilities for a job (either a current role or a job that they aspire to have).  This will provide you with an understanding of the gap in their development and assist you in developing a specific programme.
* Use these tools to develop a talent mapping tool for all employees in your business this way you can understand the potential of all your employees.

Having identified your talent, the next step is to build an appropriate development programme for an individual or group of individuals.  The aim of these programmes needs to satisfy the aims of the business and meet the individual objectives and aspirations of the employee.

Consider the following:

* Develop a Personal Development Plan (PDP).  Here a bespoke programme is developed for the individual that aims to help them to plan their career and the vital next steps.  It utilises a variety of tools including psychometrics.
* Develop a mentoring programme, marrying up talent with senior leaders in the organisation.
* Develop opportunities for individuals to gain experiences in other roles, thus growing the experience of the individual and giving them the ability to work in a variety of different roles. There could even be opportunities in other divisions or in other countries.
* Develop a study policy that allows individuals to be sponsored to gain further professional qualifications.
* Consider how you wish to reward and recognise the talent in your business.  Some suggestions could be:
* Public recognition of their success, i.e. on Company website, blog etc
* Assignment to a crucial business project
* Sign them up to a business seminar, e.g. The London Business Forum

Above all, it is import that you communicate with the individual to let them know that you believe that they are a talent worth investing in.

Other things to consider:
-------------------------

Use your talent planning tool to assist in workforce planning and areas where you may be exposed to an individual leaving or moving through the organisation.

Set yourself a target for how many employees you would want to develop internally and those that you would recruit externally.

Feel like you need to know more?
--------------------------------

For help with drafting appropriate absence policies or to arrange a consultation with our HR team, email: <info@management-team.co.uk>

Disclaimer:

All the advice given here is based on a hypothetical scenario generated by The Management Team for marketing purposes and should not in any way be considered a substitute for an individual consultation. We take every care to ensure the advice on our website is correct, however we cannot be held liable for any acts or omissions. Please note this advice should not be seen or construed as, or be substituted for, legal advice.
